The Project Gutenberg eBook, A Letter on the late Post Office Agitation,
by Charles John Vaughan


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: A Letter on the late Post Office Agitation


Author: Charles John Vaughan



Release Date: November 13, 2020  [eBook #63740]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A LETTER ON THE LATE POST OFFICE
AGITATION***


Transcribed from the 1849 John Murray edition by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org





                                    A
                                  LETTER
                               ON THE LATE
                          POST OFFICE AGITATION.


                                * * * * *

                                    BY

                        CHARLES JOHN VAUGHAN, D.D.

             HEAD MASTER OF HARROW SCHOOL, AND LATE FELLOW OF
                       TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE.

                                * * * * *

                                 LONDON:
                      JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET:
                            CROSSLEY, HARROW.

                                MDCCCXLIX.

                                * * * * *

        LONDON: PRINTED BY W. NICOL, SHAKSPEARE PRESS, PALL MALL.

                                * * * * *




A LETTER, &c.


MY DEAR SIR,

We have been lately invited to sign a parochial remonstrance against some
projected changes in the business of the London Post Office.  I, for one,
declined the invitation.  I never thought of obtruding upon others my
_reasons_ for this refusal.  I am not the Minister of the Parish; nor
have my opinions, therefore, on such a subject, any particular claim on
the attention of my neighbours.

You know the circumstance which now compels me to explain myself.  I
regret the necessity.  But neither I, nor those who have agreed with me
on this occasion, can listen in silence to the imputation of being
indifferent to the national observance of the Sunday.  If I can show you
that we are not justly liable to this suspicion, it is well worth while
to do so.  If I fail to convince you, I shall at least have entered a
serious protest, for myself and them, against such an imputation.

I have thoroughly examined the original minute (submitted by Mr. Rowland
Hill to the Post Master General in February last) which formed the basis
of the late alteration in the Sunday duties of the Post Office.  I could
wish that that minute had been more generally studied by those who have
pronounced a judgment upon the question.  It is open to your inspection:
you may form, therefore, your own opinion upon the justice of the
following observations.

The measure now impugned (the transmission, namely, of certain provincial
and foreign letters through London on the Sunday) is not an isolated one.
It is but one part of a more general scheme.  And what is the object of
that scheme, as described in the minute referred to? {5}  _The reduction
of the Sunday duties of the Post Office_.  _The securing of the utmost
possible amount of Sunday rest to all connected with the Post Office_.
What, again, was the first part of the same measure?  What was that
earlier step, taken by the same persons in the same direction, of which
the present change is a consequence?  _The total suspension of all
money-order business on Sunday throughout England and Wales_.  And what
are some of those ulterior measures, to which the attention of the
originators of this is next to be directed?  _The deferring of work now
done on the Sunday till after midnight_. {6a}  _The reduction of Sunday
work_, _even at the chief Office_, _considerably below its present
amount_. {6b}  _Important measures of relief to the rural messengers and
rural receivers on the Sunday_. {6c}  What, finally, is the declared
object of the _present_ alteration?  _Further relief from Sunday labour
in the provincial Post Offices_; _and thus_, _the diminution of Sunday
work in the department as a whole_.  So far from its being correct to
state this as a merely accidental result of the measure, it is its very
object and purpose, to which all else is subordinate and subsidiary.

Ought not these considerations to preclude at least a precipitate
sentence of condemnation?  May we not be permitted to learn the object of
a measure from its author?  Are we justified in imputing to any man, I do
not say, motives which he disavows, but motives of which he professes the
very opposite, and against which his own previous and subsequent acts
obviously militate?

But the change, however well meant, may be practically injurious.  It may
cause more harm than it obviates.  It may introduce more Sunday labour
than it supersedes.  This is, of course, conceivable.  It is just
possible, doubtless, that an able and experienced officer of this
department of the Government may be found, on this one occasion, so
unskilful or so short-sighted, as to have effected, not _less_ than he
proposed, but the very _opposite_ of that which he designed.  But is it
so?

It is admitted that, at first sight, the alteration in question may seem
to _increase_ the Sunday duties of the Post Office.  In London, to a
certain extent, it does.  It will require, at the outset, the additional
attendance of twenty-five persons (hereafter, possibly, of a somewhat
larger number) on Sunday in the London Post Office. {7}  That attendance,
you will observe is _voluntary_.  Nor is it allowed, in any case, to
infringe upon the hours of divine service.  It is proposed that the whole
interval from ten in the morning till five in the afternoon be left
perfectly free. {8a}  Nor yet would it be correct to represent the
alteration as involving any change of _principle_.  The attendance and
employment of _certain_ persons, the reception and assortment of
_certain_ letters, on the Sunday, even in the London Post Office, is no
new thing. {8b}  The conscience of the Christian community has left
_these_ practices unchallenged and unnoticed until now.  Such
considerations ought to have some weight in our estimate of the present
innovation.  Still, so far as it goes, and taken alone, the augmentation
of the Sunday force in the London Post Office is admitted to be an evil.
Is it counterbalanced by any greater good?

It is necessary to take a _national_ view of such a question.  The Post
Office system throughout England is one, not many.  The London Office,
and the provincial Offices, are but several parts of one connected whole.
The question, therefore, is, not whether this Office, or that Office,
separately regarded, will be a gainer or a loser by the change; but
whether, on the whole, the _aggregate_ of gain or of loss will
preponderate; whether, so to say, the Post Office of _England_, as
distinguished from that of London separately, or that of York or of
Manchester separately, will thus be relieved on the Sunday, or burdened.
If twenty-five _additional_ servants are required in the _London_ Office
on the Sunday, and _twice_ twenty-five can be _relieved_ on that day in
the _provincial_ Offices; the change, so far as it extends, is salutary.
Now, if this obvious principle be granted, the question is decided at
once.  Beyond all contradiction, the present measure is one of relief
from Sunday labour to the department _as a whole_.  But the opponents of
the measure argue thus: Taking the London Office by itself, an _addition_
is proposed to the labours of the Sunday: this is a sinful project: and
if it be urged, on the other side, that a tenfold _relief_ will thus be
afforded to the _provincial_ Offices, they answer, that this is but
_doing evil that good may come_.  Yet is not this argument capable of an
easy inversion?  Are you not, in _resisting_ the proposed relief of the
country Offices, on the plea of regard for that of London, doing, in
fact, a great evil—not that a small good may come, but that a small evil
may not come?

What, then, are some of the advantages (speaking merely with reference to
the observance of the Sunday) by which this admitted evil is
counterbalanced?  I will enumerate three only.

1.  The cessation of several Sunday cross-posts, by which the detention
of letters in London throughout that day has been hitherto evaded or
obviated: {10} and this, without any addition to the existing number of
mail-trains, or other means of transmission, to or from London, on the
Sunday. {11a}

2.  A great diminution of the former amount of letters written and read
in the country on that day. {11b}

3.  The entire discontinuance of a second delivery of letters on Sunday
throughout England and Wales: {12} a measure affecting considerably more
than two hundred Towns, and affording direct and immediate relief to a
very far larger number of persons.

Nor is it, perhaps, altogether presumptuous to express a hope that the
unrestricted _transmission_ of letters on the Sunday may eventually be
followed by an equally general _suspension_ of their _delivery_; by which
London and the country would be placed, in this respect, on a footing of
perfect equality; the due observance of the Sunday being alike in both
secured, with no injurious consequences, in either, to the business of
the following day.

Meanwhile, it is ascertained that, by the alterations already effected, a
very large body (amounting to some hundreds at least) of persons now
occupied on the Sunday in the provincial Offices, even during the hours
of public worship, will be enabled to obtain rest on that day, and to
enjoy without interruption the benefit of its religious services. {13}
The number of principal Post Offices thus benefited, in a greater or less
degree,—some to the extent of _seven hours_ of additional suspension of
business on every Sunday,—amounts very nearly to _five hundred_.  A very
far larger number, at present imperfectly ascertained, of Sub-offices
throughout the country, will partake of the same advantage.  The total
number of _persons_ thus relieved will obviously far exceed that of the
aggregate of _Offices_.  And who will say that these great benefits, _the
direct and principal __object_ (be it remembered) _of the whole measure_,
are utterly vitiated by their unavoidable accompaniment—the employment,
namely, of a small _additional_ force in _one_, the Metropolitan Office,
on the same day?

What, then, remains, to justify the agitation occasioned by this measure,
but a vague and indefinite suspicion that a change in one direction may
lead to a change in the other? that a measure which proposes neither to
bring in nor take out a single London letter on the Sunday, {14} may
eventually cause, in London itself, both a Sunday collection and a Sunday
delivery? that he who now seeks to lighten Sunday labour, to diminish
Sunday deliveries, Sunday letter-writing and letter-reading, may
hereafter lend his aid to their augmentation and diffusion?  Let these
evils be met, on their proper ground, and at the proper time.  Let the
good sense and the religious feeling of the country be appealed to when
the danger really threatens.  At present, it is as remote as ever.  It
will not be brought one step nearer by _this_ measure.  But it _may_ be
increased by a premature and unreasonable outcry, to be succeeded, as
usual, by a very natural recoil.

                          I remain, my dear Sir,

                                                         Yours very truly,

                                                            C. J. VAUGHAN.

HARROW,
         _November_ 16, 1849




_By the Same Author_.


SERMONS, chiefly Parochial.  8vo. 1845.

SERMONS, preached in the Chapel of Harrow School.  8vo.  1847.

NINE SERMONS, preached for the most part in the Chapel of Harrow School.
12mo.  1849.

                                * * * * *

AN EARNEST APPEAL to the Master and Seniors of Trinity College,
Cambridge, on the Revision of the Statutes.  By TWO OF THE FELLOWS, 8vo.
1840.




FOOTNOTES.


{5}  See Minute, 1, 2, 3.  “I beg to submit my views as to further
measures for reducing the Sunday duties of the Post Office.  The
importance of affording to all connected with the Post Office the utmost
amount of rest on the Sunday that is consistent with a due regard to
public convenience, having led to measures for the suspension of
money-order business on that day throughout England and Wales, it is very
satisfactory to remark, &c. &c.  And I confidently anticipate like
satisfactory results, should the Treasury concur in your Lordship’s
recent recommendation of a similar measure in Ireland and Scotland . . .
In considering the above improvement, the importance of similar relief as
respects other duties was kept in mind; and, from the investigations
which have been made, there can be no doubt that a further very important
relief as relates to Sunday work may be effected in all the provincial
offices.”

{6a}  Minute, 25.

{6b}  Minute, 26.

{6c}  Minute, 39.

{7}  Minute, 18, 19.

{8a}  Minute, 17.

{8b}  Minute, 12, 13.  “Even to London [under the old system] nearly all
letters from Ireland, Scotland, and the out-ports, as also all foreign
and colonial letters whatever, are brought, as on other days; the same
being partly assorted at the chief office on the Sunday, for delivery or
for forwarding, as the case may be, the next morning.  For the
performance of these duties, and for the selection and delivery of the
‘States’ (letters addressed chiefly to the higher offices of Government),
twenty-six persons are ordinarily employed at the chief office on the
Sunday, their time of occupation being, on the average, six hours.  The
arrival of a heavy mail from abroad requires a greater force.”

{10}  Minute, 11.  “The evil of detention has been found so serious, that
in several cases the rule has been evaded, either by making use of other
existing channels for the conveyance of the mails sent on ordinary days
through London, or by the actual establishment of Sunday cross-posts;
either of which arrangements obviously involves increased expence,
trouble, liability to error, perplexity to the public, _and additional
Sunday work_.”

{11a}  Minute, 14, 33.

{11b}  Minute, 21, 22, 23.  “It is notorious that a blank post is
everywhere preceded and followed by a greater amount of correspondence
than usual.  Thus, in London, the average number of letters is greater on
Saturday by 6 per cent., and on Monday by 25 per cent., than on other
days.  But, as respects the correspondence sent through London, Saturday
evening is at present in most towns a blank post time.  It therefore
follows that such correspondence is despatched from the provinces in
unusual amount on Saturday morning, and on Sunday morning or evening,
according as there may or may not be a Sunday day mail.  Now each of
these augmentations tends to produce additional Sunday work, both to the
department and to the public.  For the letters in the first category are
for the most part distributed by the Post Office and read by the public
on the Sunday, and those in the second are for the most part written by
the public and despatched by the office on Sunday.  It is obvious
therefore that, as far as relates to the letters in question, the
proposed change would entirely get rid of Sunday work, as respects the
public; while, as respects the department, it would exchange work now
dispersed through nearly a thousand offices for concentrated employment
in one; the latter requiring a less proportionate force, and falling on
such time as to be dealt with without infringement on the hours of divine
service.”

{12}  Minute, 27, 28; where the _connection_ of this measure with that
now under consideration is more fully illustrated.

{13}  Minute, 37.

{14}  Minute, 34.




***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A LETTER ON THE LATE POST OFFICE
AGITATION***


******* This file should be named 63740-0.txt or 63740-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/6/3/7/4/63740


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

